the Genesis
show my heart Corazon tank top freaks
beasts and athletes of DC here with
Genesis strength TV I'm actually in the
middle of Maya office doing some
rearranging actually thinking about
moving rooms and thought it would be a
good time because a lot of you guys have
hit me up with you know what are my top
books for you know for business or for
training or just in terms of success and
personal growth so I thought I would
take you guys you know kind of chop this
up into a few different videos but give
you the you know today I'm gonna get you
the first five you know my top five
training books that really kind of laid
the foundation of what I base my
programs off of and and continue to you
know adapt and modify with these are by
no means everything I use but they are a
great start and always something that I
can refer back to if I forget something
something doesn't seem right or want to
find out the best way to implement
something back into a program that may
be new so let's get this rolling
starting off training wise you know one
of the the basic ones that I think
everyone should at least have a copy of
is the essentials of strength to
strength training conditioning I don't
know they're probably unlike the 58th
edition now this is the third this is
actually the second copy I've had of it
I had I believe the first edition
whenever I first took my CSCS test and
sold it and so pick this one back up it
is just a great you know basic macro or
yeah macro view of everything you need
to know in terms of just science behind
it nutrition it just kind of you know
covers everything and gives you a good
solid base of what - you know what to
expect and how to train and how to set
stuff up in a perfect world now that is
the key especially with this one it
really works works well for you know
perfect world perfect scenario type
training the second one is what I would
consider if that's going to be the
macro basic super training is going to
be the be-all end-all cover every single
thing in depth of what you need dr. Mel
SIF is an amazing man was an amazing man
and this is definitely a book that you
can knit you could not read and just sit
and go over day to day and treat it like
a regular book you can see how
highlights a few things weigh I use this
as I will go back in if I want to
implement something new look at a
different way to do something like for
example I'm in the plyometrics chant
chapter you know kind of highlighting
tips and stuff to see if what I wanted
to do would fit with what he has
recommended works and different ways to
apply it to make it better and you know
always progressing the third one is
actually not a hardcover book for yet I
think I lost my copy the third one is
actually going to be you know building
the gymnastic body by Christopher
summers there's a couple different you
can do that one you can use something
like convict conditioning the only one
that I haven't checked out that is also
well recommended is overcoming gravity
and what that is is basically we love to
put a ton of gymnastic and body weight
movements and progressions into our
training because that way if you can
move your body you can always you know
you're going to be powerful and the
better you can move your body the better
athlete you're going to be and more
importantly a lot of times the better
you're going to look and so having
something like this combat conditioning
you know building the gymnastic body one
of those types of books in your in you
know my top five is definitely key
I read building the gymnastic body first
and so it is my favorite but convict
conditioning is definitely up there and
then from what other people have told me
overcoming gravity is about this about
the equivalent of building gymnastic
body just a little different to more
another one that really kind of
me thinking differently was um it's by a
Smitty
and it is his old chaos training manual
and I will put links to all this stuff
down below or on in a blog in the blog
post so feel free to check out D
Cleghorn com
if you are watching this on YouTube to
get all these links and where to buy
these books some of them aren't in print
anymore
but this basically Smitty's come out
with a lot of stuff and it is all
quality but this is really a good one
that covers so much and gives a great
overview of different training modules
how to accommodate and overcome
different issues a lot of different
exercises when to apply different stuff
it's just a great thing that there
really carries over well into sports and
so I refer to this a lot just to get
some basic ideas and then finally the
last one is of course easy strength by
Dan John and Pavel it is the number one
book that if I have an intern or staff
member come in this isn't the first
thing they will read because it grabs a
great solid foundation of what kind of
how our training is based based on age
and different you know muscle maturity
and athleticism and in the way they
break it down in this book with the
different quadrants is amazing and
definitely something I highly recommend
so there are my top 5 training books
that I recommend you know everybody pick
up and definitely check out or include
as part of your base you can pull even
with just those five books you can build
the probably some of the best training
routines out there for yourself
athletes clients really anyone that is
looking to get to that next level so if
you have any comments if there's any
books that you think I missed that would
kick one of these out please you know
please comment below if you want to kind
just learning the day what you know what
me and Chandler have learned in over the
past you know years of applying this in
reading and studying then make sure that
you click on the over the top seminar
comm link below to come out to Genesis
June 23rd and check out what we got
appreciate you watching the check this
out and I will catch you guys on the
flip side the Genesis
show my hardcore is insane